# Brain_tumor_subtyping

## Introduction

Classifying pediatric brain tumors into molecular subtypes profoundly determines appropriate treatment options selection as well as patients’ survival prediction.

Therefore, it is of great importance to efficiently classify patients into specific subgroups depending on their epigenome’s molecular characteristics- one of which, playing a pivotal role, is their methylation profile. 
To achieve that, we validated the efficiency of Methped. Methped is an already-developed tool for brain tumor diagnosis and subgroup identification. 

Via analyzing genome-wide DNA methylation array data, Methped is able to accurately classify a brain tumor to one of the 9 most prevalent pediatric brain tumor clinical groups. These 9 groups consist of: pilocytic astrocytoma, high-grade glioma/glioblastoma (GBM), diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), ependymoma, and primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the CNS (CNS-PNET), medulloblastoma (cerebellar PNET) or supratentorial PNET (sPNET). 

## Methods

Methylation data for pediatric (< 18 y/o) patients with brain tumors. We downloaded data for 3 patients from TCGA (Case IDs: TCGA-12-1091, TCGA-HT-7483, TCGA-DB-5278)

methylumi

MethPed

## Results

Case 1 (ID: TCGA-12-1091)

Case 2 (ID: TCGA-HT-7483)

Case 3 (ID: TCGA-DB-5278)

## References

1. Davis S, Du P, Bilke S, Triche, Jr. T, Bootwalla M (2022). methylumi: Handle Illumina methylation data. R package version 2.44.0.

2. Ahamed M, Danielsson A, Nemes S, Carén H (2022). MethPed: A DNA methylation classifier tool for the identification of pediatric brain tumor subtypes. R package version 1.26.0.

The results shown here are in whole or part based upon data generated by the TCGA Research Network: https://www.cancer.gov/tcga.
